        GLOBAL COMPANY... LOCAL SUPPORT




AUTOMOTIVE / FOOD & BEVERAGE / INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION / MARINE / INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION
Trust in The Original


                                                       COMPANY FOUNDATION
                                                                           1954

                                                                                  Invention of the World’s
                                                                           1958
                                                                                  First Filterfan®

                                         Invention of the first Industrial                                                1st Generation Filterfan®
                                                                           1962
                                              Electronic Flashing Light

                                                                   1992            New Global Headquarters Built

    Early Model Pfannenberg                             Pfannenberg UK            1993
    Electronic Flashing Light


                                                                                  Cooling Units & Air/Water
                                                                           1994
                                                                                  Heat Exchangers launched

                                                                   1997            Pfannenberg USA

                                                     Pfannenberg France           1998
                                                                                                                             Cooling Unit &
                                                                                                                       Air/Water Heat Exchangers
                                                                   1999            Pfannenberg Italy


                                                 Process Cooling Launch 1999


             Large Packaged Chiller                                 2001           Pfannenberg Singapore


                                                                           2004 QUADRO F12 launch                                      QUADRO F12



                                                                           2005 Thermostats & Heaters launch


                                                                    2007           Pfannenberg China


                                                     Pfannenberg Russia           2008


                                                           Series launch 2010
                                                                                                                          Thermostats & Heaters
   E-COOL Series

                                                                   2012            Pfannenberg Brazil


                                                                                  Air/Air Heat
                                                                           2012
          PATROL®                                                                 Exchanger launch


                                                        PATROL® launch 2012
                                                                                                             PYRA®-M            PYRA®-L


                                                                           2015 PYRA®-M launch


                                                    EB 2.0 Chiller launch 2016


                                                                                  • PYRA®-M & QUADRO LED-HI launch
                                                                           2017
                                                                                  • ECOOL Compact Series launch
                                                                                                                                    QUADRO LED-HI

                                                       PKS Air/Air Heat
   EB 2.0 Chiller                                     Exchanger launch 2018
                    PKS Air/Air Heat Exchanger

                                                                           2020 Launch of 3R Filterfan®

                                                    Stay Tuned For More       US Headquarters
                                                    Exciting Innovations 2022 Celebrates 25 years
Why You Can Trust Us


PERFECT SOLUTIONS FOR COMMERCIAL BAKERIES
Pfannenberg provides complete turnkey solutions for multi-national supermarket bakery manufacturing.
Supermarket’s across the country are striving to have their own brands and fresh baked products available
throughout their stores. To keep up with demand, downtime is not an option. Pfannenberg was invited to
investigate why systems were failing and to specify the most effective and reliable thermal management
solution.

Pfannenberg discovered that several AC cooling units were undersized as much as 25%, based on the
real heat load. In addition, failure was high due to contamination inside the enclosures. The annual cost of
these undersized and under performing cooling units was over $20,000 annually, per bakery!

The Pfannenberg solution, which included dozens of economical and robust PWS 3000 Series Air/Water
Heat Exchangers, provided a return on investment (ROI) of just 1 year. In addition, each bakery was also
able to apply for energy rebates from their local utility since the PWS solution was so energy efficient.
• Energy Efficient – ROI was less than 1 year
• Maintenance-Free Design – longer life and less downtime
• Elimination of any contamination inside enclosures and elimination of overheating
• NEMA 4/4X rating – washdown safe

“Since the installation we have had no issues and the installation is working perfectly. This is
quite an upgrade from Air Conditioning units that were not keeping the drives cool and causing
shutdowns on the line. We have not had any issues with our drives tripping as we did with the
(previous) Air Conditioning units.” – Commercial Bakery, Maintenance Manager”




PACKAGED CHILLER SOLUTION FOR METAL FORMING MACHINES
A international original equipment manufacturer (OEM) required solutions to provide cooling of large servo
motor drives – for equipment providing 60 to up to 1600 tons of pressure! The drive systems generate a
tremendous amount of heat, which required a robust and economical thermal management solution.

After consultation and a thorough thermal engineering analysis, the Pfannenberg EB series of packaged
chillers were selected. The EB series, in conjunction with the Pfannenberg PWS Air/Water Heat
Exchangers, were utilized to keep motor drives cool and running efficiently. The added benefit in selecting
the EB series was the simplicity of integration, for the equipment engineering team.

Following the standardization of the EB chillers, the OEM shared why they partnered with
Pfannenberg:
•    Easy to Implement – Wide range of standard EB chillers for the OEM’s wide product offering
•    Small Footprint – EB series of chiller offers the smallest footprint
•    Lead Time – Shipping from stock for “Just In Time” implementation
•    Global Support – Easy to get local support, anywhere in the world, and with Pfannenberg added 		
     value of annual service contracts
•    Best Value – The overall value of the Pfannenberg EB solution was the most economical
Why You Can Trust Us


SIGNALING ALARMS KEEP WATER TREATMENT PLANT
EMPLOYEES SAFE
Pfannenberg provides signaling alarms (alarm horns and strobes) to Wastewater Treatment Facilities as
part of Gas Detection Alarm Systems. Wastewater treatment is a very dangerous business and providing
robust notification is critical to employee safety – chlorine gas leaks can be very lethal!

Safety managers are always exploring ways to make their plants safer. Fortunately, Pfannenberg offers a
world-leading and easy to use solution – the PATROL Signaling Alarms. When safety is paramount and
every second matters, the PATROL system will provide the notification needed. In a real-world installation,
the PATROL alarm system activated during a potentially life-threatening chlorine leak and could be heard
a mile away from the facility! Fortunately, the chlorine leak was very minor and everyone had plenty of
life-saving notification.

The PATROL Signaling Alarms are used in many applications around the world to notify personnel
– visually with the strobe light and audibly with the intense and programmable alarm horn. The
Pfannenberg solution is priceless…every life matters!




GUARANTEEING EQUIPMENT UPTIME FOR LEADING AUTOMOTIVE
MANUFACTURER
A global automotive manufacturer had a very expensive problem – which they estimated cost nearly
$10,000 per minute of unexpected plant down-time. They had a real problem and Pfannenberg has a
perfect solution!

Pfannenberg tailors services packages for customers big and small. And in this instance, Pfannenberg
developed a comprehensive System Installation, Preventative Maintenance and Services program that
guarantees equipment up-time and lengthened the warranty to 10-years!

When partnering with Pfannenberg and choosing the most effective service package, you can rest assured
your plant will continue running and producing your products…and your profits. In partnering with
Pfannenberg, you will be in good hands with industry-leading experts that you can depend on…any place
in the world and at any time, day or night.

•    System Installation (Turnkey Solution) – Complete system installation and start-up through our 		
     turnkey program ensures quick and smooth installation of your new production lines.

•    Preventative Maintenance – Annual to customized preventative maintenance keeps your production
     lines up and running all year while significantly reducing unplanned downtime…which for this
     automotive manufacturer cost nearly $10,000 per minute!

•    Extended Warranty – Tailored to your needs and includes parts and labor to repair or replace worn out equipment.

•    Many Products Covered – Pfannenberg is well known for class-leading and long-life products with great warranties already.
     But did you know we’ll repair and warranty competitive products too?

You’ve trusted in the Original…now you can trust in our Services to protect your profits for years to come!
Products & Solutions to Help You Succeed


THERMAL                                                                      Our Thermal Management products are used by some of the largest
                                                                             companies worldwide to keep their electronics cool and safe, protecting
MANAGEMENT                                                                   critical manufacturing processes.



Filterfan 4.0TM
If the ambient temperature is always lower than the temperature required in
the electrical enclosure, then Filterfans® represent an economical solution
for thermal management of electrical enclosures. Filterfans® are the ideal
solution for clean, non-hazardous environments with an acceptable ambient
(outside the enclosure) temperature range.

DTS Cooling Units
Pfannenberg’s DTS 3000 Series Cooling Units are driven to meet the
demands of the North American NEMA market. Ideal for harsher environments
with ambient air that is too warm to cool the enclosure or is contaminated          DTS Cooling Units
with oil, particulate and conductive dusts. These units seal out the ambient air,
cooling and re-circulating clean, cool air throughout the enclosure.

PKS Air to Air Heat Exchangers
When the ambient air is cool enough to use a Filterfan® but too contaminated
to bring into the enclosure, our revolutionary PKS Air to Air Heat Exchangers
are the perfect energy saving, lightweight and virtually maintenance free
choice to cool your enclosure.

PWS Air to Water Heat Exchangers
The use of Pfannenberg Air to Water Heat Exchangers is particularly suitable
where ambient temperatures are high or the atmosphere proves to be
particularly oily or aggressive. Ideal for washdown areas of the plant or
areas with high amounts of particulate. For applications which require local
enclosure cooling using a remotely located source of refrigeration, PWS Series
Air to Water Heat Exchangers provide the perfect, energy efficient solution.
                                                                                                                PWS Air to Water    PKS Air to Air
                                                                                              Filterfan 4.0TM   Heat Exchangers    Heat Exchanger




PROCESS                                                 Our Liquid Cooling solutions provide the critical cooling required for manufacturing processes
                                                        including machine tooling, plastic injection molding equipment, food & beverage extrusion
COOLING                                                 equipment and x-ray/vision systems, to name a few.




EB Large Packaged Chillers


CCE Compact Chillers


PWS Air to Water Heat Exchangers
Our packaged and compact chillers are an ideal
solution to support cooling cabinets with PWS
Air to Water Heat Exchangers. The thermal
management is 100% independent from the
ambient temperatures at the installation location.
Products & Solutions to Help You Succeed


SIGNALING                                                        Our visual and acoustic signaling devices protect personnel and equipment satisfying numerous alarm,
                                                                 warning, and indication requirements, including: machinery operating status, process monitoring, system
TECHNOLOGIES                                                     startup, and building or area evacuation due to fire, toxic gas leak, chemical spill, or intruder alert.




Safety Begins With
Understanding the Situation




 SPECIALTY                 AUDIBLE               VISUAL                 COMBINED
 Alarms                    Alarms                Alarms                 Alarms



                         ALARM                                                  WARNING                                            INDICATE
                         IMMINENT DANGER                                        IMPENDING DANGER                                   PROCESS NOTIFICATION




SERVICE AND                                               Our thermal management services are available worldwide. Our comprehensive service team is
                                                          available wherever and whenever you need it. Pfannenberg’s innovation has made it one of the
SPARE PARTS                                               largest globally operating manufacturers of thermal management and process cooling equipment.



Pre-Sales Services
Have a cooling question? Our comprehensive consulting approach,
ensures that all of the technical and economic aspects of your thermal
management solution are taken into account in order to achieve
greater reliability, energy saving and cost optimization. Benefit from
the knowledge shared through our global services team.


Engineering Services
From concept to the finished product Pfannenberg is your reliable
partner. Need help developing a cooling solution for a large project,
machine or specific industry application? Pfannenberg’s engineering
services include product development, climate testing, CF design
and project management. We welcome every opportunity to provide
innovative solutions for your most demanding applications.


After-Sales Services
We understand how critical thermal management systems are for
keeping applications running and online. After sales support includes
preventative maintenance programs, spare part stocking programs,
onsite repair, training and regular maintenance. We offer proactive
repair and replacement, our service is not limited to Pfannenberg
products but also the units of all other manufacturers.
Industries We Serve




                                                    Our knowledge of supply chains and specific industry demands makes us the most

Industries We Serve                                 sought-after partner of leading companies in industries such as automotive, machine
                                                    and plant construction, energy, food and beverage, and infrastructure.




                                                                                            INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                     We provide products and integrated solutions for
                                                                                     applications including the construction sector (buildings,
                                                                                     roads, tunnels), transportation (airports, shipping and cranes)
                                                                                     and the water/waste water industries.




                                                                                                            WIND ENERGY
                                                                                                            Our broad range of innovative thermal
                                                                                                            management and signaling solutions
                                                                                                            are used with confidence worldwide
                                                                                                            by leading wind energy system
                                                                                                            manufacturers and their suppliers.




                                   MANUFACTURING
            As the inventor of the world’s first and most widely recognized
          thermal management solution, the FIlterfan®, our products have
         been used by some of the largest manufacturers worldwide. For
        over 60 years we’ve kept electronics cool and safe, protecting the
                         manufacturing industry’s most critical processes.




                                                              AUTOMOTIVE
                                The world’s largest automobile manufacturers and OEMS
                                     rely on Pfannenberg to provide thermal management,
                                   process cooling and signaling solutions throughout the
                               entire manufacturing process. Our specified products and
                              solutions can be found used in just about every automotive
                                            and supporting automotive process worldwide.
Industries We Serve




                                                                         FOOD & BEVERAGE
                                                                     Our products are used throughout the entire food and
                                                                     beverage manufacturing supply chain. We offer a broad
                                                                     spectrum of components and solutions including filling and
                                                                     packaging machines, process lines, brewing technology as well
                                                                     as baking and meat-processing machines. We are essential to
                                                                     keeping this critical industry online and producing 24/7.




                                                      MARINE
                                                  In an industry that encounters very harsh environments, it is crucial
                                                  to be able to have a reliable tested product that will withstand such
                                                  conditions. Our thermal management and signaling solutions are
                                                  used worldwide throughout shipping ports and on workboats,
                                                  commercial and passenger ships.




                                     INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION
                             Without proper thermal management, Industrial controls and
                             electronics can experience short-term inefficiency and shortened
                             component lifespan leading to failure, expensive repairs and
                             downtime. Modern day manufacturing would not be possible without
                             the thermal management solutions provided by Pfannenberg.




                 INDUSTRIAL DATA
             The industrial revolution continues again.... Industry 4.0 is driving electronics to
             become smaller, housed in smaller enclosures and closer to the manufacturing
             floor. This presents new and unique cooling requirements as they still continue
             to produce heat. Our engineering and technical teams continue to push
             the envelope to develop new technologies to meet this revolutionary shift in
             electrical component integration and design.
                                                  INDUSTRIAL
                                                  AUTOMATION

                                                  INDUSTRIAL
                                                  REFRIGERATION



                                                                                          FOOD &
                                                                                          BEVERAGE

                                                                                          AUTOMOTIVE




MARINE

EVERY OTHER
INDUSTRY!


                                          pfannenbergusa.com


                                                                         Connect with us online!
                                                               Check out our Pfannenberg Blog and follow us on
                                                               Social Media to receive our latest news, highlights
                                                                           and product information

                                   partner logo
                                                                       http://blog.pfannenbergusa.com/


                                                                       https://www.facebook.com/pfannenbergusa


                                                                       https://www.linkedin.com/company/
                                                                       pfannenberg-incorporated
 Pfannenberg USA
 68 Ward Road                                                          https://twitter.com/PfannenbergUSA
 Lancaster, New York 14086 USA
 Phone: 716-685-6866
 Fax: 716-681-1521                                                     https://www.youtube.com/user/PfannenbergUSA
 Email: sales@pfannenbergusa.com
                                                                                                         version 1.3
