       Chillers to Meet Even the Most Demanding
                         Food & Beverage Applications
                                 Designed for today’s food-processing environment, EB Series Chillers
                                 feature stainless steel pumps and evaporators, non-ferrous water circuits,
                                 and a polyester-epoxy blend powder-coat finish. Stainless steel or
                                 aluminum casing panels are available. Our outdoor-rated construction
                                 provides flexibility for remote installation requirements.


                                                           In recirculated cooling loop applications, our unique
                                                           combination of thermal storage and refrigerant gas
                                                           bypass technologies allows operational flexibility.


                                                           Refrigerant capacity control reduces thermal
                                                           storage volume resulting in a smaller footprint,
                                                           lower operating weight, and lower coolant costs.


                                                           Supply water temperature stability is easily achievable
                                                           for close tolerance applications and higher energy
                                                           efficiency




Generous evaporator and condenser heat transfer surfaces maximize efficiency
and tolerance to fouling to provide low operating costs and trouble-free operation –
even in the most demanding environments.



     Once-through configurations are also available for cooling water, liquid
    ingredients or products prior to packaging. This arrangement features
    FDA recommended liquid contact surface materials and optional CIP
    connections for easy maintenance.


    NEMA 4, UL-listed control panels and state-of-the-art
    microprocessor-based controllers are standard equipment
    providing safety, ease of use and service.


    Options include remote control and communication systems,
    casters for portability, and status signal lighting.
NEW
Sanitary
Rainhood
In addition to our standard
painted and stainless steel
designs, Pfannenberg also
offers a specialty 4X stainless
steel rainhood to meet the
FDA compatible requirements
                                                                                                                                PATENT
found in Food & Beverage                                                                                                       PENDING
Manufacturing Facilities.


FDA Compatible White Gasket
Design
Our white gasket design is ideal for
Rainhoods that are used on enclosures
in Food & Beverage applications. This
gasket allows for easy detection of any
contamination and is free of potentially                                                              ENVIRONMENTALLY RATED
harmful color additives.                                                                               ENCLOSURE ACCESSORY
                                                                                                             SOLUTION
                                                                                                       Based on FTTA.E489500




Robust Sealing Against                 Easy Washdown and                Compatible with Existing Fan          Easy Maintenance
Enclosure                              Disinfection                     Cutouts                               Easily remove the rainhood
A primary design element found         With a smooth, clean and         Rainhoods come in different sizes     for maintenance and filter mat
within our rainhoods is the robust     seamless design, Pfannenberg     and are designed to be compatible     replacement. The gasket will
sealing of our gasket. Our gasket      Rainhoods allow for easy         with existing Pfannenberg             not be compromised due to it’s
features; multiple seal dams with      washdown and disinfection.       Filterfans® and Exhaust Filters.      ultimate bond with high peel/
a high compression ratio and           Direct spray barrier design                                            shear resistance and excellent
dense closed cell material. This       allows for superior protection                                         UV aging. Tool-less design
gasket found in both our regular       from overspray entering the                                            comes standard, tamper-proof
and sanitary designs.                  cabinet while minimizing                                               option available.
                                       airflow loss.




     ELECTRO-TECHNOLOGY FOR INDUSTRY




     Pfannenberg Incorporated
     68 Ward Road
     Lancaster, New York 14086 USA
     Phone: 716-685-6866
     Fax: 716-681-1521

     sales@pfannenbergusa.com
     www.pfannenbergusa.com                                                                       Subject to technical amendments and misprints.
   Thermal Management
and Signaling Technology
for Food & Beverage Applications




              ELECTRO-TECHNOLOGY FOR INDUSTRY
 A Full Range of Thermal Management Solutions
                  for Control and Process Equipment
                           With products that include our patented Filterfans®, heaters, packaged
                          cooling units, air-to-water heat exchangers, packaged process chillers, and
                          signaling devices, as well as standard options such as stainless steel materials,
                          NEMA 4/4X enclosures, and wash down duty construction, these time-tested
                          products can be seamlessly incorporated into even the most demanding food
                          and beverage processing applications.



                                              Filterfans®
                                              • Highest airflow in industry while maintaining
                                              NEMA Type 12 rating

                                              • Fluted filter mats increase the surface area, which
                                               increases airflow and time between service intervals

                                              • Patented “Click & Fit” design provides fastest installation time
                                              by eliminating all hardware for mounting

                                              • Use with stainless steel rainhood for water protection on
                                              exposed enclosures

                                                                                                NEW
                   ENVIROMENTALLY RATED                                                         Sanitary Rainhood
               ENCLOSURE ACCESSORY SOLUTION
                   Based on FTTA.E489500                                                        See back cover




Thermostats,
Heaters & Hygrostats
• Thermostats are used for alarming,
 fan control and heater control

• Hygrostats can control humidity levels within
 enclosure when used with small heaters

• Heaters are available for cabinets in cold
 storage areas as well as for condensate
management
Unique Applications, Standard Products

                                             Air / Water
                                             Heat Exchangers
                                             • Sealed cabinet provides contaminant-free
                                               component cooling without adding
                                               heat to the local environment

                                             • Excellent economic solution where
                                               plant water is available or when used in
                                               conjunction with a process chiller

                                             • Sealed design and available stainless steel,
                                              NEMA Type 4/4X construction provides a
                                              maintenance-free solution with no exposed
                                              fans or maintenance of filters required



                       For applications which require local enclosure cooling using a
                       remotely located source of refrigeration, PWS Series air-to-water heat
                       exchangers provide the perfect solution. Paired with EB Series Chillers,
                       the air-to-water heat exchanger provides a total cooling solution that
                       manages process and/or control enclosure heat gain and effectively
                       removes it from the processing area. Single source responsibility for
                       the complete system ensures properly matched components that are
                       engineered to work together – and to provide a custom fit to the most
                       complex food processing equipment.




Signal Technology for
Indication, Warning & Alarm
• Warn anywhere of danger, accidents or technical faults -
 increase facility safety and reduce risks

• Process interruption indication lights alert personnel
 of machine/line status, minimizing costly downtime

• Combination audible/visual signals provide warning
  on noisy or busy production lines
                         The Pfannenberg Advantage
DTS Series Cooling Units
• Active condensate management
 utilizes a PTC heater which eliminates
 the need for drain line

• NEMA Type 4/4X 304 Stainless Steel with
 #3 polish to repel contaminants in food grade
 applications and to provide for easy washdown

• High Temperature models can operate in
 ambient temperatures up to 140° F (60° C),
 ideal near industrial ovens or baking lines


                  Whether in washdown locations or control rooms, the DTS Series' key internal
                 electronics are positioned away from potentially moist and/or caustic air.
                 Wide condenser fin spacing allows for filterless and maintenance-free operation.
                 Stainless steel units have an epoxy coating on all exposed copper tubing to
                 compliment the electrostatically-coated condensers. Fans are conformal coated,
                 backward curve impellers that have a standard life of 55,000+ hours, providing the
                 longest life and best air flow in their class.


                                   DTT Series Top Mount Cooling Units
                                   DTI Series Cooling Units
                                   • DTT Series Units provide convenient top mount cooling
                                    while eliminating the danger of condensate entering cabinets

                                   • Innovative service panel design provides easy access to
                                     filters, controls and fuses, decreasing service time and
                                     allowing filters to be changed without downtime

                                   • The DTI Series compact design easy installs on door
                                    mount applications in control rooms which require
                                    maximum floor space.




                                                                  ELECTRO-TECHNOLOGY FOR INDUSTRY
