The Pfannenberg
Thermal Management
Concept
Air/Air Heat Exchangers

A/C Cooling Units

Air/Water Heat Exchangers




 Pfannenberg’s unique
 thermal management
 concept
 Optimal thermal management for all
 requirements due to coordinated
 hardware and software.


 • Complete program of thermal management units:

     – Air/Air Heat Exchangers

     – A/C Cooling Units

     – Air/Water Heat Exchangers

   All three cooling technologies are cut-out
   compatible designed to be mounted to cabinets
   from all leading electrical enclosure manufacturers

 • Efficient       -Technology

 • Calculate the perfect thermal management solution:
   Pfannenberg Sizing Software (PSS) helps you to find
   the most suitable solution for individual application

 • Monitor your processes:        -Plant for cooling units –
   Premium software service tool for units with Pfannenberg
   Multi Controller (MC)
1 Enclosure cut-out
3 Cooling technologies
9 Device versions
Manufacturers of machines, plant engineers,
end users and distributors profit from increased
flexibility and cost savings:


• All three cooling technologies are completely
  interchangeable to suit customer’s cooling demand

• Only one standardized enclosure cut-out

• Through one standard cut-out size,
  only few enclosure variants are needed

• Minimum logistic expenditure

• Flexibility of appropriate cooling technology –
  even after the planning phase

• Simple upgrade of the cooling technology
  when temperature conditions change

• Easy and fast installation reduces service
  and maintenance costs
Air/Air Heat Exchangers

A/C Cooling Units

Air/Water Heat Exchangers




 Secure climatisation
 solution with ambient air




    ADVANTAGES

    •	C ost efficient solution for applications
       with ∆T > 10K

    •	Available in six performance classes
       from 20 W/K to 100 W/K in three sizes

    •	M aximum distance between intake and exhaust
       vents optimizes airflow within the electrical
       enclosure which eliminates potential hot spots

    •	Integrated thermostat for temperature control

    •	Additional thermostat for
        high temperature warning

    •	High maintenance friendliness

    •	M ounting-friendly seal, no elaborate
       reworking of the installation cut-out

    •	IP rating is achieved
Air/Air Heat Exchangers




FIELD OF USE

Application in which the ambient air is contaminated
with dust, or liquids, rendering the use of a filterfan
impractical.


SOLUTION

If the ambient temperature is low enough but the
use of filterfans is not possible due to rough
ambient conditions – it is advised to use air/air
heat exchangers.

The air/air heat exchanger separates the external air
circuit from the internal one. Due to this separation
the risk of damages on the components through
harmful dust and fluids is minimized.

The robust steel construction of the air/air heat
exchangers enables the safe operation in tough
industrial environments.
Air/Air Heat Exchangers

A/C Cooling Units

Air/Water Heat Exchangers




 Universal solution
 for many ambient
 conditions


    ADVANTAGES

    • Available in 5 performance classes in 3 sizes

    • Significant energy saving due to market leading
      energy efficiency ratio (EER)

    • Condenser coils with wide fin spacing for
      maximum machine availability

    • Maximum distance between intake and exhaust
      vents optimizes airflow within the electrical enclo-
      sure which eliminates potential hot spots

    • Available with a standard controller (SC)
      or with a multi controller (MC, extended
      functionality)

    • USB interface (MC version) for easy retrieval
      of parameter settings or historical data
      (Pfannenberg        -Plant software available
     free of charge)

    • Power-saving mode is integrated in the
      multi controller as standard

    • Optional pre-filter is added in a few seconds
A/C Cooling Units




FIELD OF USE

Applications where the ambient temperature outside the
electrical enclosure is not enough to ensure an optimal
temperature for the electrical components.


SOLUTION

Pfannenberg’s A/C cooling units offer the same advan-
tages as air/air heat exchangers in terms of safety and
protection against contaminated ambient air.

Despite high cooling capacity         A/C cooling units
stand out with their low energy consumption compared
to ordinary devices – general reduction of up to 43% of
energy consumption is achieved.

Multi master function: It is possible to connect 20
A/C cooling units for simultaneous operating mode by a
simple two wire connection.

Alternatively, if there is no spare space on the side of the
electrical enclosure – top mounted DTT series A/C cooling
units achieve the same cooling performances as DTI/DTS
units.
Air/Air Heat Exchangers

A/C Cooling Units

Air/Water Heat Exchangers




 Energy efficient solution
 for harsh ambient
 conditions



    ADVANTAGES

    • Liquid cooling reduces maintenance
      and increases energy efficiency

    •	M ultiple benefits for environments with
       high ambient and airborne contaminants

    •	S imple changeover from active cooling
       units to air/water heat exchanger

    •	M aintenance friendly: Enormous saving
       potential for the service costs

    • Integrated thermostat and magnetic valve
      for temperature control

    •	Temperature monitoring with alarm contact

    •	C ompatible with our Pfannenberg line of chillers
Air/Water Heat Exchangers




FIELD OF USE

Pfannenberg’s Air/Water heat exchangers are usually
used in the following situations:

• Applications with high ambient temperatures,
  such as plastic mould injection or foundries

• Processes with harsh environments containing
  airborne particulate e.g. sugar production or
  flour in food production

• Environments where machines or production
  processes are already cooled with liquid



SOLUTION

Air/water heat exchangers do not use any ambient air
in hot or contaminated environments.

It is possible to connect these units to already existing
liquid supply for machines or processes thus using
resources effectively.

In combination with chillers which are placed outside of
the production areas - the heat can be piped away as
part of the liquid solution, this way keeping the heat away
from production halls.
The Pfannenberg
       series

Energy efficient
Easy to install
Service friendly
OUR OFFER

Maximum cost efficiency with highest performance capacity.


YOUR ADVANTAGES

• Industrial design: rugged, industrial steel
  construction with removable cover

• Condenser coils with wide fin spacing for
  maximum machine availability

• Tool-free installation in less than three minutes

• Reduced energy consumption by up to 43%

• Market leading coefficient of power

• Optimized service factors MTTR and MTBF

• Service friendly due to easy replaceable components

In addition to the presented cooling solutions, the patented
Pfannenberg filterfans and chillers complete the          series.
Single person installation
and service friendliness


Pfannenberg’s thermal management units
stand out through their remarkable
customer friendly construction


  Easy installation




  The Plug&Play system enables a single person installation
  within minutes. Pfannenberg climatisation units PAI, DTI and
  PWI are mounted with only six fastening clips.




  Easy service




  Few screws and the easy access of the components make the
  devices particularly service friendly.
Cut-out compatible:
Three cut-out sizes –
20 compatible units
Which device fits into which device cut-out?




 Cut-out         Cooling unit        Air/water heat       Air/air heat
                                     exchanger            exchanger
                 300 – 4000 Watt     500 – 5000 Watt      20 – 100 W/K

 Size 1          DTx 6801            PWx 6502             PAx 6203
                 DTx 6501            PWx 6302             PAx 6173
                 DTx 6401
                 DTx 6301
                 DTx 6201

 Size 2          DTx 9341C           PWx 6302C            PAx 6133
                 DTx 9141            PWx 6152             PAx 6103
                                                          PAx 6073

 Size 3          DTx 9041            PWx 6105             PAx 6043
                                     PWx 6052



All devices are available as semi recessed DTI units or
external DTS units




FURTHER ADVANTAGES OF ALL UNITS:

• Available in stainless steel hood

• Special order RAL colours

• CAD drawings available on www.pfannenberg.com
  for all leading design packages.

• International approvals including CE,
  UL and EAC for the Russian market
PSS
Pfannenberg Sizing
Software




The PSS software is a free, very user-friendly tool, with
which you can easily and quickly determine the correct
solutions for your thermal management project.


It also contains an open library for personal selection
of enclosures and components.




                     Free download:
                     www.pfannenberg.com


                     Online version:
                     pss.pfannenberg.com


                     Free app for tablets:
                     iPad + Android
        -Plant –
The cockpit for your
thermal management!




       -Plant is the Pfannenberg system software with
which you can not only read out status information of
        cooling units, but also set and adjust parameters.
There is the possibility to communicate directly with the
cooling units or to incorporate the software into the user
interface of your machine control.

       -Plant is an important tool for service technicians,
to read status information at the cooling unit and to
parameterise it. The software provides, amongst other
things, information about the temperature progression and
the running time of the components, thus giving important
indications on necessary adjustments or maintenance
intervals.

Machine manufacturers (OEMS) implement              -Plant
in the user interface of the machine control. With this, the
machine operator is constantly informed about the status
of the controls and the temperature conditions and can
react to any deviations promptly.

      -Plant is compatible with all       cooling units
which are equipped with a multi controller (MC).
We support you with the planning
and development of your project!
On our website you can find the following downloads:
• EPlan Macros
• Pfannenberg Sizing Software (PSS)
•       -Plant Software


System solutions from one source:
In addition to devices for the thermal management of
electrical enclosures, the Pfannenberg portfolio covers
filterfans, chillers, heaters, thermostats and hygrostats.
Furthermore, Pfannenberg offers a wide spectrum
of signaling devices like flashing lights, sounders,
combined devices and signal towers, to protect your
business, keeping your personnel safe and machines
productive.




Contact us.
We are happy to assist you!
Pfannenberg Group Holding
Werner-Witt-Straße 1, 21035 Hamburg, Germany
P.O. Box 80 07 47, 21007 Hamburg, Germany

        +49 40 73412 0
        +49 40 73412 101
        info@pfannenberg.com
        www.pfannenberg.com


Pfannenberg –
there for you all over the world!

Deliveries are made on the basis of the General Terms and Services of
the ZVEI. Subject to technical amendments and misprints. This paper
has been manufactured from chlorine-free bleached cellulose.




    075000236
