Thermal Management Solutions


Green Series DTI/DTS 6000
Energy efficient for the future
What makes the
Green Series
so special


The advantages of the Green Series are manifold

                     Less energy consumption
                     The new Green Series achieves even higher energy savings of up to 11%
                     (depending on the unit) through renewed unit optimisation and is therefore
                     noticeably more cost-efficient.


                     Less refrigerant
                     The refrigerant requirement could be reduced by up to 50%. This
                     minimises the use of resources, lowers the Global Warming Potential
                     (GWP) and supports the objectives of the European F-Gases-Regulation.


                     Future proof
                     All units of the new Green Series are already certified according to UL
                     60335 listed. The addition of the word „listed“ facilitates certification, as
                     the units do not have to be approved as part of the overall system.


                               Intelligent commissioning
                               By using a jumper, a simple change between 400V and 460V is
                               now also possible quickly and easily for the 3-phase units. The
                               connector plug is fully recessed in the now centrally placed con-
                               nection area.

 Further Features
 All the advantages that have distinguished our DTI/DTS series so far have of course been
 retained or even improved. To name just a few:

 •   Cut-out compatibility of all performance classes with hereditary units and also with other
     cooling concepts, e.g. with air/water heat exchangers.
 •   Simple and quick installation in a few minutes in the partially recessed version
 •   Large distances between air inlet and outlet for particularly good ventilation
 •   Maximum ease of service due to easy access to the main components
 •   Increase in protection class from IP54 to IP55 to the cabinet
                                                                                                     Energy efficient for the future


For every application
    Installa-      Perform.                        Voltage                            Cover material                    Controller***
      tion*         class            115V           230V        400/460V       Steel sheet**       stainless steel     SC             MC
  DTI / DTS         1000W
                    1500W
                    2000W
                    2500W
                    4000W
 * DTI - partially recessed mounting, quick installation; DTS - door- or sidemounting
 ** Galvanised sheet steel, RAL7035 powdered. Other colours on request.
 *** SC - Standard-Controller with basic functions; MC - Multi-Controller /w extended features (you can find more details on our website)




Calculate energy efficiency by yourself
                                                                                     If you would like to get an overview
                                                                                     of possible savings potentials of your
                                                                                     application, then why not visit our
                                                                                     energy efficiency calculator on our
                                                                                     homepage.

                                                                                     Simply enter the power, the load
                                                                                     and your price per kWh and you will
                                                                                     receive a clear presentation of your
                                                                                     savings as a pdf file.

                                                                                       www.pfannenberg.com/GreenSeries

    Calculation example




Further information
 Are you interested in the cooling units of our new Green Series? Would you like more
 information about our solutions and our portfolio for control cabinet air conditioning? Below
 you will find two links to help you. We look forward to receiving your feedback




                              Green Series                                                   Contact form
                                                                       Energy efficient for the future


Pfannenberg Your global partner for thermal management
• Over 60 years of experience in thermal management, signaling technology and liquid cooling

• Ability and flexibility to develop tailor-made solutions in cooperation with the customer

• Experience with maintenance and support of projects around the world

• Global presence with several own production sites

• Global service network

• You can find an overview of our international network here.




   sales office and production            sales office          sales partner           direct sales




  Pfannenberg Europe GmbH
  Werner-Witt-Straße 1
  21035 Germany
  pfannenberg.com

  Tel.:    +49 (040) 734 12 0
  Fax:     +49 (040) 734 12 101
  Email:   info@pfannenberg.com
