TITLE:
PSS Tutorial
How to use Pfannenberg Sizing Software (PSS) to correctly size a thermal solution for your enclosure.
Copia offline de info.pfannenbergusa.com/support/pss-tutorial  ·  capturada el 24 de julio de 2026  ·  contenido © Pfannenberg Sales America
Contenido
Getting Started
Contacts Page
Enclosure Information Page
Operating Environment Page
Heat Dissipation Page
Results Page
TipPlease do not click the back button in the browser. If the back button is clicked, this will create an error message on the page and the program will need to be restarted. Instead, use the PSS tabs to move back and forth within the project.
Getting Started
For values that are not in PSS by standard (°C, Watts (W) Heat Loss, or mm), select preferences in the top left-hand corner to go to the page below. Once the values are selected, click the "OK" button and the values will change over in the software.
[img: Preferences en la esquina superior izquierda] Preferences en la esquina superior izquierda [img: Ventana de preferencias: unidades de temperatura, potencia y dimensiones] Ventana de preferencias: unidades de temperatura, potencia y dimensiones
Contacts Page
This is the first page when entering into the PSS Project. The "Project Name" will be the name of the file when downloaded. The other fields are optional.
[img: Contacts Page] Contacts Page
Enclosure Information Page
Once the contacts page is complete, click the "Continue" button. This will bring up the Enclosure Information Tab.
Field Explanations:
Enclosure Dimensions: Input the Height, Width, and Depth of the enclosure.
Temperature in Switch Cabinet: Input the minimum and maximum temperature in the enclosure that is acceptable. The maximum temperature will be taken into consideration when calculating a properly sized solution for the enclosure.
Housing Material: Select from the dropdown for the material used for the enclosure or manually input the material information. Ensure color is selected accurately for outdoor applications as solar loading will vary depending on the color of the enclosure.
Supply Voltage for Air Conditioning Components: Select a voltage that can be used from the dropdown table. Please note this can change which units show in the final solution page.
[img: Enclosure Information Page] Enclosure Information Page
Operating Environment Page
Once finished with the Enclosure Tab, click the "Continue" button. On the next tab labelled "Environment", the page below will be displayed.
Field Explanations:
Location: Select where the enclosure will be located — Indoor (NEMA Type 12), Outdoor (NEMA Type 3R/4), or Washdown (NEMA Type 4/4X).
Solar Load: If the enclosure is in direct sunlight outside, please select this checkmark box.
Wind Speed: If the enclosure is outside and in a very windy space (such as on a bridge or on top of a building), please select the wind speed dropdown.
Installation Characteristics: Select from the dropdown table on how the enclosure will be mounted. This relates directly to the surface area available for heat transfer of the environment into the enclosure or heat transfer from the enclosure into the environment.
Ambient Temperature: Input the minimum and maximum ambient air temperatures into this selection.
[img: Operating Environment Page] Operating Environment Page
Heat Dissipation Page
Once finished with the Environment Tab, click the "Continue" button. The page below will be displayed.
Field Explanations:
Indicate Known Total Dissipation: Input the total heat loss within the cabinet if it is known.
Calculate Dissipation Based on Components in Enclosure: Use this tab to select from a few different components if total heat loss is not known. It is recommended to still verify heat loss of each individual component as these values might be higher than the actual components that are being used. Utilization on the component page refers to part load.
Calculate Dissipation based on Recorded Temperature: If total heat load is unknown or an incomplete component list, use this tab. It is recommended to calculate the main heat generators' heat load within the cabinet (this is typically for larger drives). The temperature outside the enclosure and the temperature recorded inside the enclosure is needed to calculate heat load within the cabinet. This is typically for existing enclosures in the field.
[img: Heat Dissipation: dissipation total conocida] Heat Dissipation: dissipation total conocida [img: Heat Dissipation: calculo por componentes] Heat Dissipation: calculo por componentes [img: Heat Dissipation: calculo por temperatura registrada] Heat Dissipation: calculo por temperatura registrada
Results Page
Once finished with the Dissipation Tab, click the "Continue" button. The last page, confirm the correct solution for the application. Select the product family to determine which solution will cool the enclosure effectively. The picture below states filter fan and air/air heat exchanger are not possible, this is because the ambient temperature selected (100°F) is higher than the maximum allowable temperature inside the enclosure (95°F).
Click the cooling units or heat exchanger button to check which unit could work best, the example below is for cooling units. The dropdown will list which AC unit can cool the electrical enclosure at the worst-case scenario (highest ambient temperature and highest electrical enclosure temperature). The quantity can be changed if a two/multiple unit solution is needed. Different mounting styles can be selected (side / flush mount, integrated / recessed mount, or top mount). Once a unit is selected, click the "OK" button.
After this, click on the "Detail Results" or "Download Detail Results as PDF" to receive a page with all of the calculations taken into factor and showing the unit selected as an effective solution for the custom application.
The "Download Project" downloads a HTML file which can be opened up by the PSS. Images are shown below for more information on how to open the project. Whenever sending in a message to PSS support, please include a download of the project (either HTML or PDF).
[img: Results Page: familias de producto disponibles] Results Page: familias de producto disponibles [img: Seleccion de unidad de refrigeracion] Seleccion de unidad de refrigeracion [img: Detail Results] Detail Results [img: Descarga del proyecto] Descarga del proyecto [img: Opciones de descarga] Opciones de descarga
Select the HTML file downloaded before / that was sent. Then click import.
[img: Importar un proyecto guardado en PSS] Importar un proyecto guardado en PSS
Fuente original: https://info.pfannenbergusa.com/support/pss-tutorial
Documento archivado para uso personal. Todo el texto y las imagenes pertenecen a Pfannenberg Sales America. Las capturas se recomprimieron para reducir el tamano del archivo.